Here are some basic Java interview questions along with their answers:


1. What is Java, and what are its key features?

Java is a high-level, object-oriented programming language developed by Sun Microsystems (now owned by Oracle). It is known for its "Write Once, Run Anywhere" (WORA) capability due to its platform independence.
Key features of Java include:
    Object-Oriented: Everything in Java is an object, promoting code reusability and modularity.
    Platform Independence: Java code can run on any platform with the help of the Java Virtual Machine (JVM).
    Simple and Easy to Learn: Java has a clean syntax and is beginner-friendly.
    Robust and Secure: Java's strict type checking and memory management make it robust and secure.
    Multithreading: Java supports concurrent programming, allowing the execution of multiple threads simultaneously.
    High Performance: Java uses Just-In-Time (JIT) compilation to achieve high performance.


2. Explain the differences between JDK, JRE, and JVM.
    JDK (Java Development Kit) is a software development kit that includes tools necessary to develop and compile Java applications.
    JRE (Java Runtime Environment) is an environment that enables Java applications to run but does not include development tools.
    JVM (Java Virtual Machine) is an abstract machine that provides the runtime environment to execute Java bytecode. It is responsible for converting bytecode into machine code.

3. What is a class and an object in Java?
    A class is a blueprint or template for creating objects. It defines the structure and behavior of objects.
    An object is an instance of a class, representing a real-world entity with its state and behavior.

4. How do you create an instance (object) of a class in Java?
    To create an object, you use the new keyword followed by the class name and parentheses, like this:
    java
    Copy code
    MyClass myObject = new MyClass();

5. What are constructors in Java, and what is their purpose?
    Constructors are special methods in a class used to initialize objects when they are created.
    Their purpose is to set initial values to object attributes and prepare the object for use.

6. What is the difference between static and non-static methods in Java?
    Static methods belong to the class and can be called without creating an instance of the class.
    Non-static methods are tied to object instances and can be called only on objects of the class.


7. Explain the significance of the public static void main(String[] args) method in Java.
    The main method is the entry point of a Java program and is called when the program is executed.
    It must be declared as public, static, and void, and it takes a String array (args) as a parameter to handle command-line arguments.

8. What are access modifiers (public, protected, private, and default) in Java, and how do they affect class members' visibility?
    Access modifiers control the visibility or accessibility of class members (variables and methods).
    public: The member is accessible from any class.
    protected: The member is accessible within the same package and subclasses.
    private: The member is accessible only within the same class.
    Default (no modifier): The member is accessible within the same package.
